# FAQ

## What is Decent Poems

Decent Poems is a website that allows people over the internet to write poems. In Decent Poems, a poem has a title and six verses. Everyone can participate, but there are few rules to spice up things a bit:

- Your verse must include what we call **current word**.
- The **current word** is updated every time someone submits a verse.
- If multiple people submit a valid verse, only the first one is stored, the other ones are discarded.
- After submitting the sixth verse, the poem is finalized and it is sold in a Dutch auction.
- If the poem is sold, authors that contributed will receive a part of the preceedings (this is true for secondary sales as well).
- If the poem is not sold, it is lost forever.


## Why did you do this?

We think Decent Poems is an interesting experiment in coordination and creative writing. We want to see if anons are able to coordinate and write something beautiful.

## How are the words chosen?

Words are chosen from a dictionary of ~25000 most popular words in the English language.

## Why are some words highlighted?

Remember what we called **current word**? (If not, no worries, just read the answer to the first question). We highlight all the current words that have been used to create the verse.

## Why do I have to wait to get a new word?

Writing poems is a very important business, and we don't want the quality of our poems to suffer from a low quality entropy source. We use only the finest sources of randomness available out there. That's why we use the [Chainlink VRF](https://docs.chain.link/docs/chainlink-vrf/). Chainlink VRF (Verifiable Random Function) is a provably fair and verifiable random number generator (RNG) that enables smart contracts to access random values without compromising security or usability.

## Is there a time limit for the words?

No, there is not.

## I see a swear word and I don't like it

Swear words are part of our language as well.

## What if two people submit their verse at the same time?

If multiple people submit a valid verse, only the first one is stored, the other ones are discarded.

## Who can participate?

Anyone on the internet (and with a wallet).

## How are NFT sold? What is a "Dutch auction"?

Every poem is sold in a so called *Dutch auction*. The auction starts right after the poem is completed. The initial price is set to 100 MATIC. In the next 4 days, the price slowly decreases reaching the value of 0 MATIC. The first person to bid will end the auction and get the NFT. If no one bids, the poem is lost forever.

## Do I get money if I participate? How?

If you are the author of one or more verses, and the pome has been sold you get money in two ways:

- When a poem is bought, preceedings are split to all authors. If you wrote one verse, you'll get 1/7 of the sale. If you participated with two verses, then you'll get 2/7.
- When a poem is sold again on a secondary market, 5% of that sale is split to all authors. If you wrote one verse, you'll get 1/7 of that 5%. If you participated with two verses, then you'll get 2/7 of the 5%.

*Note: we keep a 5% of primary and secondary sales.*

## What is 0xSplits?

[0xSplits](https://www.0xsplits.xyz/) is an open-source, audited, non-upgradeable protocol for efficiently splitting onchain income.

Every time an NFT is created, a new *split* is created. It includes the addresses of all authors for that specific NFT. The *split* will receive all proceedings from the secondary sales. In the description of every NFT we have included also the link to the *split*.

## What does it mean that the NFT is "on–chain"?

The metadata and image of the NFT are fully stored and generated by the Decent Poem smart contract. No external assets are used.

## Why Polygon?

Polygon is a very efficient and cost effective blockchain that runs the EVM. Polygon allows our contributors to mint NFTs and store text cheaply, allows us to create complex smart contracts and store thousands of words for a fraction of the cost seen in other blockchains.